Update KMS documentation (#321)
digital-asset/docs.daml.com: docs/2.7.0/docs/canton/usermanual/security.rst

Within Canton we use the cryptographic primitives of signing, symmetric and
asymmetric encryption, and MAC with the following supported schemes:

> .. image:: ./images/canton_supported_schemes.png

Reviewer: please use sphinx tables and not a picture (easier to change, searchable): https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#grid-tables

Asymmetric Encryption:

- ECIES on P-256 with HMAC-SHA256 and AES128-GCM (default)
- ECIES on P-256 with HMAC-SHA256 and AES128-CBC (only available with a ``jce`` provider)
- RSA 2048 with OAEP using SHA-256 (only available with ``jce`` and ``kms`` providers)

MAC:

- HMAC with SHA-256

The list of supported signing and asymmetric encryption schemes :ref:`is smaller <kms_schemes>` when we make use of a
key management service (KMS) to generate and store our keys.

Key Generation and Storage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Keys can either be generated in the node and stored in the node's primary storage or generated and stored by
an external key management system (KMS).

> We currently support an early access version of Canton that can use AWS KMS to either:

Author: I removed _early access_ and created an issue #13623.

by Canton. The unencrypted keys are stored in memory so this approach
increases security without impacting performance. This is a common approach
used by KMS vendors; using a symmetric encryption key, called the `KMS
wrapper key`, to encrypt and decrypt the stored, private keys.

The **second way** is to directly use a KMS to generate and store Canton's private keys
and then use its API to securely sign an decrypt messages. A Canton node still stores
the corresponding public keys in its stores so that it can verify signatures and
encrypt messages without having to rely on the KMS.

The KMS integration is currently only enabled for `Amazon Web Services (AWS)
KMS` in Canton Enterprise. Other KMS integration options
(e.g., `Google Cloud Provider (GCP) KMS` or other on-premise solutions) will be supported in the future.

KMS support can be enabled for a new installation (i.e., during the node
bootstrap) or for an existing deployment that is transparently updated to use KMS.
When the KMS is enabled after a node has been running, (a) the keys are encrypted and stored in this encrypted form
in the Canton node's database, or (b) transparently replaced by external KMS keys.

> Note: If we encrypt the private keys at rest, scenario (a), then the AWS KMS keys used to encrypt them need

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: In scenario (a), then the AWS KMS keys used to encrypt the private keys need
```

to live as long as the Canton database backups, so care must be taken when
deleting database backup files or KMS keys. Otherwise, a Canton node restored from a database
backup may try to decrypt the private keys with a `KMS wrapper key` that was previously deleted.

Canton Configuration of a KMS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Like other Canton capabilities, KMS integration is enabled within a Canton
node's configuration file. A KMS is configured in the following way:

.. _kms_config:

.. literalinclude:: /canton/includes/mirrored/enterprise/app/src/test/resources/encrypted-store-enabled-tagged.conf
   :language: none
   :start-after: user-manual-entry-begin: KmsConfig
   :end-before: user-manual-entry-end: KmsConfig

> - ``type`` specifies which KMS to use: currently only `aws` is supported.

Author: https://github.com/DACH-NY/canton/issues/13623

Specific to AWS:

- ``region`` specifies which region the AWS KMS is bound to.
- ``multi-region-key`` flag enables the replication of keys generated by the KMS. With replication turned on, the operator can replicate a key from one region to another (Note: replication of a key is not done automatically by Canton) and change the region configured in Canton at a later point in time without any other key rotation required. **The standard single-region approach is applicable for most scenarios**.

> Configure AWS Credentials and Permissions

Author: I added this comment to the [GCP issue](https://github.com/DACH-NY/canton/issues/13623)

KMS configuration. If you wish to change the key specification (e.g. enable multi region) you are required
to update the configuration before rotating the wrapper key.

Canton Configuration for External Key Storage and Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> .. warning::

Reviewer: let's move this to note and at the end of this section

    You cannot mix an external private key storage configuration
    with an encrypted private key storage configuration.

In the example below we configure a Canton participant node (called ``participant1``) to generate and
store private keys in an external KMS. Besides the previously presented :ref:`AWS KMS configuration <kms_config>`
you only need to specify the correct crypto provider ``kms``:

.. literalinclude:: /canton/includes/mirrored/enterprise/app/src/test/resources/encrypted-store-enabled-tagged.conf
   :language: none
   :start-after: user-manual-entry-begin: PrivateKeyStoreConfig
   :end-before: user-manual-entry-end: PrivateKeyStoreConfig

> AWS KMS only supports the following cryptographic schemes:

Reviewer: refer to the section with the table of supported schemes, we don't need to repeat it here

.. _kms_schemes:

Signing:

- ECDSA with P-256 and P-384

Asymmetric Encryption:

- RSA 2048 with OAEP using SHA-256

Therefore, a node running with a ``kms`` provider is only ever able to communicate
with other nodes running a ``kms`` or ``jce`` providers. Furthermore,
the domain has to be explicitly configured to use the KMS supported algorithms

> as the required algorithms on the domain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as the required algorithms on the domain.
```

make sure the snippet below will also include the domain config

An example configuration that puts it all together is below:

.. literalinclude:: /canton/includes/mirrored/enterprise/app/src/test/resources/encrypted-store-enabled.conf
   :language: none

.. todo::
      #. `Enable revert for a KMS provider <https://github.com/DACH-NY/canton/issues/13635>`_

.. note::
    Currently if a node starts with a KMS as its provider it can no longer be reverted without a full reset of the node

>     (i.e., re-generation of node identity and all keys). We plan to add this revert feature in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    (i.e., re-generation of node identity and all keys).
```

.. _manual-aws-ksm-key-rotation:

Auditability
^^^^^^^^^^^^

AWS provides  tools to monitor KMS keys. To set automatic external logging, refer to the `official documentation
<https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/monitoring-overview.html>`_.
This includes instructions on how to set AWS Cloud Trail or Cloud Watch Alarms

> to keep track of usage of KMS keys. We can also extend this with an optional audit trail for all the

Reviewer: let's document the canton audit capabilities when we have implemented them

KMS configuration. If you wish to change the key specification (e.g. enable multi region) you are required
to update the configuration before rotating the wrapper key.

Canton Configuration for External Key Storage and Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning::
    You cannot mix an external private key storage configuration
    with an encrypted private key storage configuration.

In the example below we configure a Canton participant node (called ``participant1``) to generate and
store private keys in an external KMS. Besides the previously presented :ref:`AWS KMS configuration <kms_config>`
you only need to specify the correct crypto provider ``kms``:

> .. literalinclude:: /canton/includes/mirrored/enterprise/app/src/test/resources/encrypted-store-enabled-tagged.conf

Author: I know. I made a note to myself to include this in the integration test PR to tag in here.

   :language: none
   :start-after: user-manual-entry-begin: PrivateKeyStoreConfig
   :end-before: user-manual-entry-end: PrivateKeyStoreConfig

Please be aware that AWS KMS only supports the following cryptographic schemes:

.. _kms_schemes:

Signing:

- ECDSA with P-256 and P-384

Asymmetric Encryption:

- RSA 2048 with OAEP using SHA-256

Therefore, a node running with a ``kms`` provider is only ever able to communicate

> with other nodes running a ``kms`` or ``jce`` providers.

Author: Is the domain config going to be any different no? We just need it to also be _jce_ or _kms_ no?

> with other nodes running a ``kms`` or ``jce`` providers.

Reviewer: the problem is the following setup:
- domain using JCE, which has a larger set of supported algorithms than KMS and by default the required schemes on the domain are the supported algorithms of the provider
- participant is using KMS, which only supports a subset of the JCE supported algorithms, so it won't be able to connect to the domain.

the domain has to be explicitly configured to use the KMS supported algorithms as the required algorithms on the domain.

An example configuration that puts it all together is below:

> .. literalinclude:: /canton/includes/mirrored/enterprise/app/src/test/resources/encrypted-store-enabled.conf

Author: No it's not (it's on purpose). We need to merge the snippet in Canton before I can tag it here.

   :language: none

.. warning::

>     Once a node starts with a KMS as its provider it can no longer be reverted without a full reset of the node

Author: 1) We cannot export the private keys in KMS this is not allowed (if you are the manager of the store)... 2) could potentially but this requires a substantial refactoring (don't think it's going to be in 2.7). Therefore, we should have a warning on this even if it's temporary no?

>     Once a node starts with a KMS as its provider it can no longer be reverted without a full reset of the node

Author: I don't think so... at least in AWS 
_No. All KMS keys or the private portion of an asymmetric KMS key cannot be exported in plain text from the HSMs. Only the public portion of an asymmetric KMS key can be exported from the console or by calling the GetPublicKey API._

>     (i.e., database pruning and re-generation of all keys).

Reviewer: pruning is a specific term in canton, we shouldn't conflate it here

.. _manual-aws-ksm-key-rotation:

Auditability
^^^^^^^^^^^^

AWS provides  tools to monitor KMS keys. To set automatic external logging, refer to the `official documentation
<https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/monitoring-overview.html>`_.
This includes instructions on how to set AWS Cloud Trail or Cloud Watch Alarms

> to keep track of usage of KMS keys. Errors resulting from the use of a

Reviewer: we also need to extend that with an optional audit trail for all the KMS usage when used in full KMS mode

Author: _...AWS Cloud Trail or Cloud Watch Alarms to keep track of usage of KMS keys or of the KMS operations in general._
